

High-Throughput Sequencing Identifies Novel and Conserved Cucumber (Cucumis 
sativus L.) microRNAs in Response to Cucumber Green Mottle Mosaic Virus 
Infection.


Seedlings of Cucumis sativus L. (cv. 'Zhongnong 16') were artificially 
inoculated with Cucumber green mottle mosaic virus (CGMMV) at the 
three-true-leaf stage. Leaf and flower samples were collected at different time 
points post-inoculation (10, 30 and 50 d), and processed by high throughput 
sequencing analysis to identify candidate miRNA sequences. Bioinformatic 
analysis using screening criteria, and secondary structure prediction, indicated 
that 8 novel and 23 known miRNAs (including 15 miRNAs described for the first 
time in vivo) were produced by cucumber plants in response to CGMMV infection. 
Moreover, gene expression profiles (p-value <0.01) validated the expression of 3 
of the novel miRNAs and 3 of the putative candidate miRNAs and identified a 
further 82 conserved miRNAs in CGMMV-infected cucumbers. Gene ontology (GO) 
analysis revealed that the predicted target genes of these 88 miRNAs, which were 
screened using the psRNATarget and miRanda algorithms, were involved in three 
functional categories: 2265 in molecular function, 1362 as cellular components 
and 276 in biological process. The subsequent Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and 
Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the predicted target genes were 
frequently involved in metabolic processes (166 pathways) and genetic 
information processes (40 pathways) and to a lesser degree the biosynthesis of 
secondary metabolites (12 pathways). These results could provide useful clues to 
help elucidate host-pathogen interactions in CGMMV and cucumber, as well as for 
the screening of resistance genes.



The Roles of MicroRNAs (miRNAs) in Avian Response to Viral Infection and 
Pathogenesis of Avian Immunosuppressive Diseases.


MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of non-coding small RNAs that play important 
roles in the regulation of various biological processes including cell 
development and differentiation, apoptosis, tumorigenesis, immunoregulation and 
viral infections. Avian immunosuppressive diseases refer to those avian diseases 
caused by pathogens that target and damage the immune organs or cells of the 
host, increasing susceptibility to other microbial infections and the risk of 
failure in subsequent vaccination against other diseases. As such, once a 
disease with an immunosuppressive feature occurs in flocks, it would be 
difficult for the stakeholders to have an optimal economic income. Infectious 
bursal disease (IBD), avian leukemia (AL), Marek's disease (MD), chicken 
infectious anemia (CIA), reticuloendotheliosis (RE) and avian reovirus infection 
are on the top list of commonly-seen avian diseases with a feature of 
immunosuppression, posing an unmeasurable threat to the poultry industry across 
the globe. Understanding the pathogenesis of avian immunosuppressive disease is 
the basis for disease prevention and control. miRNAs have been shown to be 
involved in host response to pathogenic infections in chickens, including 
regulation of immunity, tumorigenesis, cell proliferation and viral replication. 
Here we summarize current knowledge on the roles of miRNAs in avian response to 
viral infection and pathogenesis of avian immunosuppressive diseases, in 
particular, MD, AL, IBD and RE.


ICTV Virus Taxonomy Profile: Pospiviroidae.

Members of the family Pospiviroidae have single-stranded circular RNA genomes 
that adopt a rod-like or a quasi-rod-like conformation. These genomes contain a 
central conserved region that is involved in replication in the nucleus through 
an asymmetric RNA-RNA rolling-circle mechanism. Members of the family 
Pospiviroidae lack the hammerhead ribozymes that are typical of viroids 
classified in the family Avsunviroidae. The family Pospiviroidae includes the 
genera Apscaviroid, Cocadviroid, Coleviroid, Hostuviroid and Pospiviroid, with 
>25 species. This is a summary of the ICTV Report on the family Pospiviroidae, 
which is available at ictv.global/report/pospiviroidae.


Marek's disease virus-encoded microRNAs: genomics, expression and function.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are the recently discovered small non-coding RNA molecules 
that have post-transcriptional regulatory functions in many important biological 
processes. A large number of miRNAs have been found to be encoded by viral 
genomes, especially in herpesviruses. Previous research regarding miRNAs encoded 
by herpesviruses, including Marek's disease virus (MDV), has demonstrated their 
involvement in lytic replication, latent infection, T-lymphocyte transformation 
and tumorigenesis. MDV is an oncogenic alphaherpesvirus, with the ability to 
induce tumors in natural hosts; however, formation of these tumors can be 
prevented by immunization with attenuated or nonpathogenic forms of the virus. 
Marek's disease is considered to be a good biomedical model for investigating 
the biology, genetics, and immunology of tumorigenesis. In this paper, we review 
the discovery and identification of MDV-encoded miRNAs, along with their 
genomics, expression profiles, and currently known functions. We also discuss 
the prospects and techniques possibly applicable to the further investigation of 
the biological roles of MDV-encoded miRNAs.


MicroRNA-Transcription factor regulatory networks in the early strobilar 
development of Echinococcus granulosus protoscoleces.

BACKGROUND: Echinococcus granulosus sensu lato has a complex developmental 
biology with a variety of factors relating to both intermediate and final hosts. 
To achieve maximum parasite adaptability, the development of the cestode is 
dependent on essential changes in transcript regulation. Transcription factors 
(TFs) and miRNAs are known as master regulators that affect the expression of 
downstream genes through a wide range of metabolic and signaling pathways. In 
this study, we aimed to develop a regulatory miRNA-Transcription factor 
(miRNA-TF) network across early developmental stages of E. granulosus 
protoscoleces by performing in silico analysis, and to experimentally validate 
TFs expression in protoscoleces obtained from in vitro culture, and from in vivo 
experiments.
RESULTS: We obtained list of 394 unique E. granulosus TFs and matched them with 
818 differentially expressed genes which identified 41 predicted TFs with 
differential expression. These TFs were used to predict the potential targets of 
31 differentially expressed miRNAs. As a result, eight miRNAs and eight TFs were 
found, and the predicted network was constructed using Cytoscape. At least four 
miRNAs (egr-miR-124a, egr-miR-124b-3p, egr-miR-745-3p, and egr-miR-87-3p) and 
their corresponding differentially expressed TFs (Zinc finger protein 45, Early 
growth response protein 3, Ecdysone induced protein 78c and ETS transcription 
factor elf 2) were highlighted in this investigation. The expression of 
predicted differentially expressed TFs obtained from in vitro and in vivo 
experiments, were experimentally validated by quantitative polymerase chain 
reaction. This confirmed findings of RNA-seq data.
CONCLUSION: miRNA-TF networks presented in this study control some of the most 
important metabolic and signaling pathways in the development and life cycle of 
E. granulosus, providing a potential approach for disrupting the early hours of 
dog infection and preventing the development of the helminth in the final host.


Neuroprotection of microRNA in neurological disorders (Review).

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, endogenous, non-coding RNA molecules that function 
as post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression by imperfect base-pairing 
with the 3'-untranslated regions of their target mRNAs. Altered expression of 
numerous miRNAs has been shown to be extensively involved in the pathogenesis of 
various diseases and cancers. Additionally, the specific expression of miRNAs in 
the nervous system has indicated that miRNAs are critical for the occurrence and 
development of neurological diseases. Increasing evidence has shown that 
specific miRNAs target the expression of particular proteins that are 
significant in the disease pathogenesis. Therefore, miRNA-mediated regulation 
may be important in the occurrence and development of neurological diseases and 
may function as a novel biomarker and tool for clinical therapy. In the present 
study, the significance of miRNAs is reviewed in a number of neurological 
disorders and the possibility of their use in therapeutic interventions is 
evaluated.


Genome-wide identification of turnip mosaic virus-responsive microRNAs in 
non-heading Chinese cabbage by high-throughput sequencing.

Turnip mosaic virus (TuMV) is the most prevalent viral pathogen infecting most 
cruciferous plants. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are around 22 nucleotides long 
non-protein-coding RNAs that play key regulatory roles in plants. Recent 
research findings show that miRNAs are involved in plant-virus interaction. 
However we know little about plant defense and viral offense system networks 
throughout microRNA regulation pathway. In this study, two small RNA libraries 
were constructed based on non-heading Chinese cabbage (Brassica campestris ssp. 
chinensis L. Makino, NHCC) leaves infected by TuMV and healthy leaves, and 
sequenced using the Illumina-Solexa high-throughput sequencing technology. A 
total of 86 conserved miRNAs belonging to 25 known miRNA families and 45 novel 
ones were identified. Among them, twelve conserved and ten new miRNAs were 
validated by real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR (qPCR). Differential 
expression analysis showed that 42 miRNAs were down-regulated and 27 miRNAs were 
up-regulated in response to TuMV stress. A total of 271 target genes were 
predicted using a bioinformatics approach, these genes are mainly involved in 
growth and resistance to various stresses. We further selected 13 miRNAs and 
their corresponding target genes to explore their expression pattern under TuMV 
and/or cold (4°C) stresses, and the results indicated that some of the 
identified miRNAs could link TuMV response with cold response of NHCC. The 
characterization of these miRNAs could contribute to a better understanding of 
plant-virus interaction throughout microRNA regulation pathway. This can lead to 
finding new approach to defend virus infection using miRNA in Chinese cabbage.


MiR-107 Regulates Adipocyte Differentiation and Adipogenesis by Targeting 
Apolipoprotein C-2 (APOC2) in Bovine.

Adipogenesis is a complex and precisely orchestrated process mediated by a 
series of adipogenic regulatory factors. Recent studies have highlighted the 
importance of microRNAs (miRNAs) in diverse biological processes, most 
specifically in regulating cell differentiation and proliferation. However, the 
mechanisms of miRNAs in adipogenesis are largely unknown. In this study, we 
found that miR-107 expression was higher in bovine adipose tissue than that in 
other tissues, and there was a downregulation trend during adipocyte 
differentiation. To explore the function of miR-107 in adipocyte 
differentiation, agomiR-107 and antiagomiR-107 were transfected into bovine 
adipocytes, respectively. Oil Red O staining, CCK-8, EdU assays, RT-qPCR, and 
Western blotting were performed, and the results showed that overexpressed 
miR-107 significantly suppressed fat deposition and adipocyte differentiation, 
while knockdown of miR-107 promoted fat deposition and adipocytes 
differentiation. In addition, through bioinformatics analysis, luciferase 
reporter assays, RT-qPCR, and Western blotting, we identified apolipoprotein 2 
(APOC2) as a target of miR-107. Transfection of siRNA-APOC2 into adipocytes led 
to suppression in adipocyte differentiation and proliferation, suggesting a 
positive role of APOC2 in bovine lipogenesis. In summary, our findings suggested 
that miR-107 regulates bovine adipocyte differentiation and lipogenesis by 
directly targeting APOC2, and these results. These theoretical and experimental 
basis for future clarification of the regulation mechanism of adipocyte 
differentiation and lipogenesis. Moreover, for the highly conserved among 
different species, miR-107 may be a potential molecular target to be used for 
the treatment of lipid-related diseases in the future.


Virus-resistant pigs might help to stem next outbreak.

By genetically engineering pigs to degrade a crucial viral protein, livestock 
can be made less susceptible to foot and mouth disease virus.

The clock gene, period, influences migratory flight and reproduction of the 
oriental armyworm, Mythimna separata (Walker).

The oriental armyworm, Mythimna separata, is a major long-distance migratory 
insect pest of grain crops in China and other Asian countries. Migratory flights 
and reproductive behavior usually occur at night, regulated by a circadian 
rhythm. However, knowledge about the linkages between adult flight, 
reproduction, and clock genes is still incomplete. To fill this important gap in 
our knowledge, a clock gene (designated Msper) was identified and phylogenetic 
analysis indicated that the encoded protein (MsPER) was highly similar to PER 
proteins from other insect species. Quantitative RT-PCR assays demonstrated that 
significantly different spatiotemporal and circadian rhythmic accumulations of 
mRNA encoding MsPER occurred during development under steady 14 h : 10 h 
light : dark conditions. The highest mRNA accumulation occurred in adult 
antennae and the lowest in larvae. Msper was expressed rhythmically in adult 
antennae, relatively less in photophase and more entering scotophase. Injecting 
small interference RNA (siRNA) into adult heads effectively knocked down Msper 
mRNA levels within 72 h. Most siRNA-injected adults reduced their evening flight 
activity significantly and did not exhibit a normal evening peak of flight 
activity. They also failed to mate and lay eggs within 72 h. Adult mating 
behavior was restored to control levels by 72 h post injection. We infer that 
Msper is a prominent clock gene that acts in regulating adult migratory flight 
and mating behaviors of M. separata. Because of its influence on migration and 
mating, Msper may be a valuable gene to target for effective management of this 
migratory insect.