

The Additional 15 nt of 5' UTR in a Novel Recombinant Isolate of Chilli Veinal 
Mottle Virus in Solanum nigrum L. Is Crucial for Infection.


An isolate of chilli veinal mottle virus (ChiVMV; genus Potyvirus) of Solanum 
nigrum L. from southwest China (ChiVMV-YunN/Yuxi) was identified and sequenced 
(GenBank: OP404087). Comparison with other ChiVMV isolates and recombination 
analyses suggested a recombinant origin. The most significant recombination 
event among all 21 complete ChiVMV isolates was an ending breakpoint at 
1408-1488 for ChiVMV-YunN/Yuxi with ChiVMV-TaiW and ChiVMV-YunN/Ca operating as 
the respective major and minor parents. Interestingly, the 5' UTR of 
ChiVMV-YunN/Yuxi is 15 nucleotides ('AAAAATAAAACAACC') longer than other 
reported isolates. A full-length clone of ChiVMV-YunN/Yuxi was constructed and 
was shown to be infectious in Nicotiana benthamiana. The additional 15 nt of 5' 
UTR in ChiVMV-YunN/Yuxi was stable when transmitted through three generations. 
Experiments with modified clones showed that the additional 15 nt are essential 
for infection by this isolate.





The Acute bee paralysis virus-Kashmir bee virus-Israeli acute paralysis virus 
complex.

Acute bee paralysis virus (ABPV), Kashmir bee virus (KBV) and Israeli acute 
paralysis virus (IAPV) are part of a complex of closely related viruses from the 
Family Dicistroviridae. These viruses have a widespread prevalence in honey bee 
(Apis mellifera) colonies and a predominantly sub-clinical etiology that 
contrasts sharply with the extremely virulent pathology encountered at elevated 
titres, either artificially induced or encountered naturally. These viruses are 
frequently implicated in honey bee colony losses, especially when the colonies 
are infested with the parasitic mite Varroa destructor. Here we review the 
historical and recent literature of this virus complex, covering history and 
origins; the geographic, host and tissue distribution; pathology and 
transmission; genetics and variation; diagnostics, and discuss these within the 
context of the molecular and biological similarities and differences between the 
viruses. We also briefly discuss three recent developments relating specifically 
to IAPV, concerning its association with Colony Collapse Disorder, treatment of 
IAPV infection with siRNA and possible honey bee resistance to IAPV.



Modification of the internal ribosome entry site element impairs the growth of 
foot-and-mouth disease virus in porcine-derived cells.


The 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) 
contains an internal ribosome entry site (IRES) that facilitates translation 
initiation of the viral ORF in a 5' (m7GpppN) cap-independent manner. IRES 
elements are responsible for the virulence phenotypes of several enteroviruses. 
Here, we constructed a chimeric virus in which the IRES of FMDV was completely 
replaced with that of bovine rhinitis B virus (BRBV) in an infectious clone of 
serotype O FMDV. The resulting IRES-replaced virus, FMDV(BRBV), replicated as 
efficiently as WT FMDV in hamster-derived BHK-21 cells, but was restricted for 
growth in porcine-derived IBRS-2, PK-15 and SK-6 cells, which are susceptible to 
WT FMDV. To identify the genetic determinants of FMDV underlying this altered 
cell tropism, a series of IRES-chimeric viruses were constructed in which each 
domain of the FMDV IRES was replaced with its counterpart from the BRBV IRES. 
The replication kinetics of these chimeric viruses in different cell lines 
revealed that the growth restriction phenotype in porcine-derived cells was 
produced after the replacement of domain 3 or 4 in the FMDV IRES. Furthermore, 
the change in FMDV cell tropism due to IRES replacement in porcine-derived cells 
was mainly attributed to a decline in cell-specific IRES translation initiation 
efficiency. These findings demonstrate that IRES domains 3 and 4 of FMDV are 
novel cell-specific cis-elements for viral replication in vitro and suggest that 
IRES-mediated translation determines the species specificity of FMDV infection 
in vivo.


Viral synergism suppresses R gene-mediated resistance by impairing downstream 
defense mechanisms in soybean.

Viral synergism occurs when mixed infection of a susceptible plant by 2 or more 
viruses leads to increased susceptibility to at least 1 of the viruses. However, 
the ability of 1 virus to suppress R gene-controlled resistance against another 
virus has never been reported. In soybean (Glycine max), extreme resistance (ER) 
against soybean mosaic virus (SMV), governed by the Rsv3 R-protein, manifests a 
swift asymptomatic resistance against the avirulent strain SMV-G5H. Still, the 
mechanism by which Rsv3 confers ER is not fully understood. Here, we show that 
viral synergism broke this resistance by impairing downstream defense mechanisms 
triggered by Rsv3 activation. We found that activation of the antiviral 
RNA-silencing pathway and the proimmune mitogen-activated protein kinase 3 
(MAPK3), along with the suppression of the proviral MAPK6, are hallmarks of 
Rsv3-mediated ER against SMV-G5H. Surprisingly, infection with bean pod mottle 
virus (BPMV) disrupted this ER, allowing SMV-G5H to accumulate in 
Rsv3-containing plants. BPMV subverted downstream defenses by impairing the 
RNA-silencing pathway and activating MAPK6. Further, BPMV reduced the 
accumulation of virus-related siRNAs and increased the virus-activated siRNA 
that targeted several defense-related nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat 
receptor (NLR) genes through the action of the suppression of RNA-silencing 
activities encoded in its large and small coat protein subunits. These results 
illustrate that viral synergism can result from abolishing highly specific R 
gene resistance by impairing active mechanisms downstream of the R gene.


[Inhibition of porcine circovirus type 2 replication by the plasmid vector 
expressing siRNAs].

[Article in Chinese]


OBJECTIVE: To develop siRNA as a potential tool for control of porcine 
circovirus 2 (PCV2) infection.
METHODS: We designed two short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) related to the 
replicase (rep) gene of porcine circovirus and one related to capsid (cap) gene 
of PCV2 basd on the genomic sequences of the viruses deposited in GenBank. The 
corresponding DNA fragments were synthesized, annealed and ligated into the 
downstream of the mouse originated U6 promoter of the RNAi-Ready pSIREN-RetroQ 
ZsGreen vector. As controls, the siRNAs specific to Luciferase contained in the 
vector kit and negative fragments with no similarities to any known species were 
also included. We transformed the recombinant plasmids into the host bacterium 
DH5a and positive clones were selected. The positive clones were sequenced and 
five clones carried the correct inserts. They were designated as Retro-SH1, 
Retro-SH4, Retro-SH6,Retro-Luc and Retro-NC. To test whether the siRNAs specific 
to PCV expressed by the vector could inhibit the virus replication, we evaluated 
the inhibition effect on PCV2 replication both in Dulac cells and experimental 
mice using real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: The results showed that the purified plasmids could strongly inhibit 
the replication of the PCV2 virus and the inhibition rate reached to 99% in cell 
culture. In the animal experiments, siRNAs expressed by the plasmids could 
inhibit the replication of the PCV2 virus and the inhibition rate varied from 
26% to 99%.
CONCLUSION: The siRNAs specific to PCV2 expressed by vectors should be potential 
in the control of the diseases related to PCV2 infection.



miR-142-3p suppresses porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus 
(PRRSV) infection by directly targeting Rac1.

Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) caused by PRRS virus 
(PRRSV) has been recognized as one of the severest epidemics in pigs worldwide. 
microRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in a variety of biological processes, 
including cell differentiation, proliferation and death, as well as viral 
infections and antiviral immune responses. In this study, we found that 
miR-142-3p was expressed lower in cells susceptible to PRRSV infection than in 
cells less or no permissive to PRRSV infection. Subsequently, we showed that 
overexpression of miR-142-3p remarkably inhibited PRRSV infection in PAMs, while 
blockage of endogenous miR-142-3p significantly enhanced PRRSV replication. 
Then, we demonstrated that miR-142-3p directly targeted Ras-related C3 botulinum 
toxin substrate 1 (Rac1), a member of Rho GTPases family, by using luciferase 
reporter assay and UV cross-linking and immunoprecipitation (CLIP) assay. 
Importantly, we verified that miR-142-3p inhibited PRRSV entry into PAMs and 
accordingly suppressed PRRSV infection by downregulating Rac1 expression. These 
findings reveal an important role of miR-142-3p in modulating PRRSV infection 
and provide us with some ideas for developing novel antiviral therapy against 
PRRSV infection.


Alterations in bone marrow microRNA expression profiles on infection with avian 
pathogenic Escherichia coli

Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC) is one of the most common avian 
bacterial diseases globally. The bone marrow is a reservoir of immature immune 
cells. To elucidate the role of bone marrow microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulating the 
host response to APEC infection, we performed miRNA-seq to investigate 
alterations in the expression of bone marrow miRNAs in three groups of specific 
pathogen-free chickens: non-challenged (NC) and challenged with APEC for 12 h 
(C12) and 24 h (C24). Twenty and 19 differentially expressed miRNAs (fold change 
>2, P < 0.01) were identified on comparing the NC and C12 and the NC and C24 
groups, respectively. On functional annotation analysis of target genes of 
differentially expressed miRNAs, we found that the gene ontology term "immune 
system process" was significantly enriched at both 12 h and 24 h; moreover, 
several important signaling pathways were triggered in response to APEC 
infection, such as MAPK, cGMP-PKG, Notch, and cAMP pathways. In addition, we 
performed reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) to validate 
the differential expression of miRNAs. qRT-PCR data were similar to the 
sequencing data. On constructing an miRNA-target gene network, gga-miR-2127, 
gga-miR-6643-5p, and gga-miR-6567-3p were found to potentially play a vital role 
in the immune process. Overall, our findings provide deeper insights into miRNA 
transcriptome changes involved in the immune response of the chicken bone marrow 
to APEC infection.


Milk microRNA-146a as a potential biomarker in bovine tuberculosis.

In this research communication we exploited the potential use of milk microRNAs 
(miRs) as biomarkers for bovine tuberculosis (bTB). bTB is a zoonotic disease 
caused by Mycobacterium bovis which affects animal health, influencing herd 
economic sustainability. Diagnosis is based on skin delayed-type 
hypersensitivity reaction and quantification of interferon gamma but both 
techniques are influenced by several confounding factors. Thus, new methods for 
early diagnosis are required. In this context, microRNAs have been used as 
promising biomarkers for both infectious and non-infectious diseases. To 
determine the possible involvement of microRNAs in bTB, we analysed the 
expression of four immune-related miRs in 200 cows grouped in cases and controls 
with respect to positivity to tuberculosis. The analysis showed a different 
magnitude of expression in the groups indicating that active tuberculosis could 
influence miRs expression. We used expression values of miR-146a, the highest 
differentially expressed miR, for Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve 
analysis. In order to determine a test cut-off value for miR-146a expression 
that would differentiate cases and controls, a value for the miR-146a expression 
higher than 8 was selected as this gave a test specificity and sensitivity of 
80·0% and 86·0% respectively. These values confirm the possibility of using 
miR-146a as a milk prognostic biomarker for bovine tuberculosis.


Inhibition of encephalomyocarditis virus replication by shRNA targeting 1D and 
3AB genes in vitro and in vivo.

Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) could infect many host species and cause acute 
myocarditis and sudden death in pre-weaned piglets. It was necessary to develop 
new antiviral strategies for the treatment of the virus infection. Here, four 
plasmids expressing shRNA (small hairpin RNA) targeted to 1D or 3AB protein 
genes of EMCV were constructed and their inhibition efficiency on the 
replication of EMCV was evaluated in both BHK21 cells and mice. The results 
showed that three out of those four shRNA constructs could significantly inhibit 
EMCV replication in BHK21 cells on the levels of viral RNA and protein. 
Moreover, it was found that the shRNAs could suppress significantly the load of 
EMCV in the brain tissue of the mice pretreated with the constructs for 6-24 h. 
The clinical signs and pathological lesions of the mice in the groups inoculated 
with the shRNA constructed were milder obviously, compared with those in 
pSUPER-mN3 and challenge control groups. The survival rates of mice inoculated 
with pSUPER-3AB-1, pSUPER-3AB-2, and pSUPER-1D-1 for 12 h was 100, 80, and 40%, 
respectively, while, in the control groups it was only 20%. It indicated that 
the vector-based shRNA targeting to 3AB and 1D genes might be a potential 
anti-EMCV strategy.



Exploration of wheat yellow mosaic virus-responsive miRNAs and their targets in 
wheat by miRNA and degradome sequencing.

Wheat (Triticum aestivum) is one of the most important food crops around the 
world. China is the largest wheat production country and wheat yellow mosaic 
virus (WYMV) is a non-negligible threat to wheat production. This study aimed to 
explore miRNAs and their corresponding target genes responsive to WYMV in wheat. 
Linmai and Jimai were used for miRNA and degradome high-throughput sequencing. 
After comparison and analysis, differentially expressed miRNAs and their target 
genes between normal wheat and WYMV-infected wheat were identified. GO and KEGG 
pathway enrichment analysis were then performed on target genes. A total of 530 
miRNAs were identified in all samples, including 106 known miRNAs and 424 novel 
miRNAs. Among them, 131 miRNAs, corresponding to 85 target genes, were 
differentially expressed between normal wheat and WYMV-infected wheat. 85 target 
genes were significantly enriched in 21 GO terms and two KEGG pathways, Plant 
hormone signal transduction and Monobactam biosynthesis. In conclusion, 131 
differentially expressed miRNAs, corresponding to 85 target genes, were 
identified between normal wheat and WYMVinfected wheat. Our findings provide 
more evidence on the roles of miRNAs and their target genes in wheat- WYMV 
interactions.