
Comparative analysis of microRNAs from the lungs and trachea of dogs (Canis 
familiaris) infected with canine influenza virus.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous non-coding small RNAs of 
18-22-nucleotides in length that regulate gene expression at the 
post-transcriptional level. The objective of this study was to examine the 
differences in the miRNA expression profiles of the lungs and trachea of beagle 
dogs infected with canine influenza virus (CIV). Total RNA was isolated from 
lung and trachea tissues of beagle dogs infected and non-infected with H3N2 CIV 
at 4 dpi. A total of 41,512,315 and 39,107,475 reads were obtained from the lung 
and trachea, respectively. Out of a total 288 dog miRNAs available in miRBase, 
227 and 236 miRNAs were detected in the infected (Fg) and the non-infected lungs 
(Fc), respectively, whereas 242 miRNAs were detected in both the infected (Qg) 
and the non-infected trachea (Qc). From these, 34 and 45 miRNAs were 
differentially expressed in the lungs and trachea between the infected and 
non-infected dogs, respectively. More miRNAs were highly expressed in the 
non-infected tissues than in the infected tissues. miR-143 was the most 
abundantly expressed miRNA in the four samples, followed by let-7. In total, 
252, 234, 196 and 235 novel miRNAs were identified in the Fc, Fg, Qc, and Qg 
groups, respectively. To our knowledge, this is the first study examining the 
miRNA gene expression in CIV infected dogs using the Solexa sequencing approach. 
We have revealed the existence of a large number miRNAs that are affected by CIV 
infection as well as identified some potentially new miRNAs. These findings will 
help us better understand the host-CIV interaction and its relationship to 
pathogenesis, as well as contribute to the prevention and control of CIV.


ICTV Virus Taxonomy Profile: Avsunviroidae.

Members of the family Avsunviroidae have a single-stranded circular RNA genome 
that adopts a rod-like or branched conformation and can form, in the strands of 
either polarity, hammerhead ribozymes involved in their replication in plastids 
through a symmetrical RNA-RNA rolling-circle mechanism. These viroids lack the 
central conserved region typical of members of the family Pospiviroidae. The 
family Avsunviroidae includes three genera, Avsunviroid, Pelamoviroid and 
Elaviroid, with a total of four species. This is a summary of the ICTV Report on 
the taxonomy of the family Avsunviroidae, which is available at 
http://www.ictv.global/report/avsunviroidae.



OsMYC2 mediates numerous defence-related transcriptional changes via jasmonic 
acid signalling in rice.

Jasmonic acid (JA) plays central roles in various events in plants, especially 
defence against pathogens and insects. The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) 
transcription factor MYC2 has attracted attention as a master regulator of JA 
signalling in dicotyledonous plants. However, how MYC2 functions in 
monocotyledonous plants, including agriculturally important crops such as 
cultivated rice, has been poorly understood. To elucidate the comprehensive 
effects of rice MYC2 (OsMYC2) on the JA-inducible transcriptional modifications, 
we performed RNA-sequencing by using OsMYC2-knockdown plants (osmyc2RNAi). In 
osmyc2RNAi, JA-inducible expression of many defence-related genes, for example 
chitinases and proteinase inhibitors, was compromised. Decrease in JA-dependent 
activation of the biosynthetic pathways of specialised metabolites, especially 
defence compounds, was also evident in the osmyc2RNAi line. Furthermore, a 
substantial change was noted in the expression of distinct types of 
transcription factors, such as MYB-type factors, likely depicting the importance 
of OsMYC2 in not only defence responses but also other morphogenetic events. Our 
findings provide fundamental information to understand the overall functions of 
MYC2 in JA signalling in monocotyledonous plants, which might yield agricultural 
benefits.



A Chinese isolate of barley yellow dwarf virus-PAV represents a third distinct 
species within the PAV serotype.

The complete nucleotide sequence of barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) PAV-CN 
genomic RNA was determined. This represents the seventh complete genome sequence 
of a BYDV-PAV serotype. The genome organization of PAV-CN was comparable to that 
of other BYDV-PAV serotypes, but the nucleotide sequence of full genome was only 
76.9-80.3% similar. Sequence similarity of individual open reading frames and 
untranslated regions (UTR) between PAV-CN and other PAV isolates ranged from 
37.9 to 98.2%. Overall, PAV-CN was most similar to BYDV-PAS, which belongs to 
one of two distinct species within the PAV serotype of BYDV, although the 5' UTR 
and ORF1 of PAV-CN was most similar to BYDV-GAV, another member of the genus 
Luteovirus that is not serologically related to BYDV-PAV. These data suggest 
that PAV-CN may have undergone a recombination event with GAV and that PAV-CN 
represents a third distinct species within the PAV serotype of BYDV.

MicroRNAs Are Involved in Maize Immunity Against Fusarium verticillioides Ear 
Rot.

Fusarium ear rot (FER) caused by Fusarium verticillioides is one of the most 
common diseases affecting maize production worldwide. FER results in severe 
yield losses and grain contamination with health-threatening mycotoxins. 
Although most studies to date have focused on comprehensive analysis of gene 
regulation in maize during defense responses against F. verticillioides 
infection, less is known about the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in this process. 
We used deep sequencing to compare small RNA libraries from the maize kernels of 
susceptible (N6) or resistant (BT-1) inbred lines from uninfected plants and 
upon F. verticillioides infection. We found that pathogen exposure was 
accompanied by dynamic alterations in expression levels of multiple miRNAs, 
including new members of previously annotated miRNA families. A combination of 
transcriptomic, degradomic, and bioinformatics analyses revealed that F. 
verticillioides-responsive miRNAs and their potential target genes displayed 
opposite expression patterns in the susceptible and resistant genotypes. 
Functional category analysis uncovered preferential enrichment of the 
pathogen-responsive miRNAs and their targets in the phenylpropanoid metabolic 
processes, plant-pathogen interactions, and plant phytohormone signal 
transduction pathways. Furthermore, transgenic maize plants overexpressing 
miR408b exhibited reduced resistance to F. verticillioides infection in a 
susceptible maize line. These findings provide new insights into the regulatory 
roles of miRNAs in maize immunity against FER and new resources for breeding 
disease resistance into maize.



The miR9863 family regulates distinct Mla alleles in barley to attenuate NLR 
receptor-triggered disease resistance and cell-death signaling.

Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) Mla alleles encode coiled-coil (CC), nucleotide 
binding, leucine-rich repeat (NB-LRR) receptors that trigger isolate-specific 
immune responses against the powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria graminis f. sp. 
hordei (Bgh). How Mla or NB-LRR genes in grass species are regulated at 
post-transcriptional level is not clear. The microRNA family, miR9863, comprises 
four members that differentially regulate distinct Mla alleles in barley. We 
show that miR9863 members guide the cleavage of Mla1 transcripts in barley, and 
block or reduce the accumulation of MLA1 protein in the heterologous Nicotiana 
benthamiana expression system. Regulation specificity is determined by variation 
in a unique single-nucleotide-polymorphism (SNP) in mature miR9863 family 
members and two SNPs in the Mla miR9863-binding site that separates these 
alleles into three groups. Further, we demonstrate that 22-nt miR9863s trigger 
the biogenesis of 21-nt phased siRNAs (phasiRNAs) and together these sRNAs form 
a feed-forward regulation network for repressing the expression of group I Mla 
alleles. Overexpression of miR9863 members specifically attenuates MLA1, but not 
MLA10-triggered disease resistance and cell-death signaling. We propose a key 
role of the miR9863 family in dampening immune response signaling triggered by a 
group of MLA immune receptors in barley.

Time-Course Small RNA Profiling Reveals Rice miRNAs and Their Target Genes in 
Response to Rice Stripe Virus Infection.

It has been known that many microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the regulation 
for the plant development and defense mechanism by regulating the expression of 
the target gene. Several previous studies has demonstrated functional roles of 
miRNAs in antiviral defense mechanisms. In this study, we employed 
high-throughput sequencing technology to identify rice miRNAs upon rice stripe 
virus (RSV) infection at three different time points. Six libraries from mock 
and RSV-infected samples were subjected for small RNA sequencing. Bioinformatic 
analyses revealed 374 known miRNAs and 19 novel miRNAs. Expression of most 
identified miRNAs was not dramatically changed at 3 days post infection (dpi) 
and 7 dpi by RSV infection. However, many numbers of miRNAs were up-regulated in 
mock and RSV-infected samples at 15 dpi by RSV infection. Moreover, expression 
profiles of identified miRNAs revealed that only few numbers of miRNAs were 
strongly regulated by RSV infection. In addition, 15 resistance genes were 
targets of six miRNAs suggesting that those identified miRNAs and 15 NBS-LRR 
resistance genes might be involved in RSV infection. Taken together, our results 
provide novel insight into the dynamic expression profiles of rice miRNAs upon 
RSV infection and clues for the understanding of the regulatory roles of miRNAs 
via time-course.

Polymorphisms at the 3'end of the movement protein (MP) gene of grapevine Pinot 
gris virus (GPGV) affect virus titre and small interfering RNA accumulation in 
GLMD disease.

Grapevine Leaf Mottling and Deformation (GLMD) is a grapevine disease that has 
been associated with a trichovirus, the grapevine Pinot gris virus (GPGV). A 
wide diversity in the severity of GLMD disease symptoms has been recorded 
worldwide, but the relationship of this diversity to the sequence variation in 
the GPGV genome is still a matter of debate. Results from comparative analysis 
of GPGV genomic sequences have suggested an association of polymorphisms at the 
3'-end of the movement protein (MP) with GLMD severity. Here, the 3'-terminus of 
the MP gene of a GPGV infectious clone derived from an isolate from grapevine 
showing severe symptoms (fvg-12), was substituted with a 356 bp synthetic DNA 
fragment having a sequence resembling that of another GPGV isolate (fvg-15), 
recovered from an asymptomatic grapevine. The clone containing this chimeric 
construct was root-inoculated in virus-free Kober rootstocks along with the 
clones containing the fvg-12 and fvg-15 full length sequence. Remarkable 
differences in virus titre, accumulation of GPGV-derived small interfering RNAs 
(siRNAs), alterations in the gene expression of boron transporters and, to a 
lesser extent, in symptom expression were recorded among plants infected with 
either one of the three GPGV derived clones. In particular, the chimeric clone 
behaviour was indistinguishable from that of the donor of the small 356 bp 
fragment and significantly different from the other. Thus, this work 
experimentally confirmed the critical role of the GPGV-MP C-terminus in 
determining the fate of the infection, as it had been previously hypothesized on 
the basis of comparative sequence analysis.



Understanding microRNAs regulation in heat shock response in the sea cucumber 
Apostichopus japonicus.

The sea cucumber Apostichopus japonicus is a valuable species in China. The 
extreme high temperature in the summer often results in high mortality. 
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important post-transcriptional regulatory roles in gene 
expression and can influence heat shock response (HSR) greatly. In this study, 
we determined the expression profiles of miRNAs under heat stress (HS) in A. 
japonicus by using high-throughput sequencing technique. Among the differential 
expression miRNAs, we highlighted 41 differentially expressed miRNAs, many of 
which were involved in immunity process and disease regulation. Gene ontology 
and pathway analyses of putative target genes were also carried out. 
Cell-substrate adherens junction and cell-substrate junction were significantly 
enriched in GO analysis. Moreover, we made a correlation analysis between 
remarkable miRNAs and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in sea cucumbers 
under HS. We identified 17 key miRNA-target pairs potentially regulated HSR of 
sea cucumbers. These results will provide new insights about miRNAs regulation 
and molecular adaptive mechanisms in sea cucumbers under HS.


Small RNA profiling of virus-infected grapevines: evidences for virus 
infection-associated and variety-specific miRNAs.

Grapevine is one of the economically and culturally important perennial fruit 
crops. More than 60 viruses infect grapevines and adversely affect their growth 
and development. Latent infection of most viruses in grapevines leads to chronic 
modulation of gene expression at transcriptional and post-transcriptional 
levels. Plant small RNAs (sRNAs) consist of microRNA (miRNA) and small 
interfering RNA (siRNA). miRNAs are expressed from the plant genome while most 
siRNAs are derived from double-stranded RNA molecules which are intermediates 
during virus replication. In a previous study, we constructed four cDNA 
libraries of sRNAs that were enriched from three virus-infected grapevines and 
one virus-free grapevine. Majority of siRNAs align most closely with the genomes 
of DNA viruses in the genus Badnavirus, family Caulimoviridae that led to the 
discovery of a new Grapevine vein clearing virus in grapevines. In this study, 
we conducted a comprehensive analysis of miRNAs in the four cDNA libraries and 
identified novel and stress-related miRNAs. The results indicated that miRNA 
abundance was influenced by virus infection. A total of 54 new miRNAs were 
identified and characterized, six of which, VITIS-MIR17, 18, 19, 20, 21, and 22, 
were detected only in virus-infected samples. One target of VITIS-MIR18 is the 
gene coding a non-apical meristem protein (GSVIVT00035370001), a transcription 
factor in the regulation of plant development and stress responses. Among the 
virus infection-induced known miRNAs, miRNA168 and miRNA3623 likely regulate 
grapevine's defense response, miRNA319 and miRNA395 modulate the expression of 
genes that are involved in nutrient metabolisms while miRNA396 plays a role in 
the regulation of cell division and cell cycle. The abiotic stress-induced 
miR169 and mi398 were negatively regulated by virus infection in grapevines. In 
addition, variety-specific miRNAs were discovered and compiled. The newly 
discovered miRNAs expand the miRNA profiles in the Vitis species. The 
characteristics of variety-specific and virus infection-associated miRNAs help 
understand the biology underlying the development and defense response of 
grapevines.