
The microRNAs in the antennae of Apolygus lucorum (Hemiptera: Miridae): 
Expression properties and targets prediction.


MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression and contribute to numerous 
physiological processes. However, little is known about the functions of miRNAs 
in insect chemosensation. In this study, nine small RNA libraries were 
constructed and sequenced from the antennae of nymphs, adult males, and adult 
females of Apolygus lucorum. In total, 399 (275 known and 124 novel) miRNAs were 
identified. miR-7-5p_1 was the most abundant miRNA. Altogether, 69,708 target 
genes related to biogenesis, membrane, and binding activities were predicted. In 
particular, 15 miRNAs targeted 16 olfactory genes. Comparing the antennae of 
nymphs and adult males and females, 94 miRNAs were differentially expressed. 
Alternatively, a subset of differentially expressed miRNAs was verified by qPCR, 
supporting the reliability of the sequencing results. This study provides a 
global miRNA transcriptome for the antennae of A. lucorum and valuable 
information for further investigations of the functions of miRNAs in the 
regulation of chemosensation.

MicroRNA-mediated regulation of gene expression in the response of rice plants 
to fungal elicitors.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that have important regulatory 
functions in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic stress. 
Increasing evidence also supports that plant miRNAs contribute to immune 
responses to pathogens. Here, we used deep sequencing of small RNA libraries for 
global identification of rice miRNAs that are regulated by fungal elicitors. We 
also describe 9 previously uncharacterized miRNAs in rice. Combined small RNA 
and degradome analyses revealed regulatory networks enriched in 
elicitor-regulated miRNAs supported by the identification of their corresponding 
target genes. Specifically, we identified an important number of miRNA/target 
gene pairs involved in small RNA pathways, including miRNA, heterochromatic and 
trans-acting siRNA pathways. We present evidence for miRNA/target gene pairs 
implicated in hormone signaling and cross-talk among hormone pathways having 
great potential in regulating rice immunity. Furthermore, we describe 
miRNA-mediated regulation of Conserved-Peptide upstream Open Reading Frame 
(CPuORF)-containing genes in rice, which suggests the existence of a novel 
regulatory network that integrates miRNA and CPuORF functions in plants. The 
knowledge gained in this study will help in understanding the underlying 
regulatory mechanisms of miRNAs in rice immunity and develop appropriate 
strategies for rice protection.


mmu-miRNA-342-3p promotes hepatic stellate cell activation and hepatic fibrosis 
induced by Echinococcus multilocularis infection via targeting Zbtb7a.

Liver fibrosis is one of the histopathological characters during Echinococcus 
multilocularis infection. The activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) is a 
key event in the development of liver fibrosis. However, the molecular mechanism 
of HSC activation in the E. multilocularis infection-induced liver fibrosis 
remains largely unclear. Here, we reported that mmu-miR-342-3p was most 
dominantly expressed in HSCs and was upregulated in the HSCs in response to E. 
multilocularis infection. We further showed that mmu-miR-342-3p was able to bind 
to the 3' UTR of the Zbtb7a gene and regulated its expression. Moreover, 
mmu-miR-342-3p expression was negatively correlated with its target gene Zbtb7a 
in HSCs during E. multilocularis infection. Knockdown of mmu-miR-342-3p promoted 
the expression of Gfap in the activated HSCs in vitro. In the E. 
multilocularis-infected mice, knockdown of mmu-miR-342-3p suppressed the 
expression of α-Sma, Col1α1, and TGF-β but promoted the expression of Gfap. 
Therefore, mmu-miR-342-3p is a key regulator for activation of HSCs, and 
inhibiting mmu-miR-342-3p to suppressed Zbtb7a-mediated TGF-β signaling in 
activated HSCs could be a novel strategy to treat liver fibrosis induced by E. 
multilocularis.

The bta-miR-22-3p can alleviate LPS-induced inflammatory response in yak 
endometrial epithelial cells by targeting KSR2.

Bovine endometritis is a common reproductive system disease in dairy cows that 
leads to decreased milk production and reproductive performance, causing 
significant economic losses for farmers. Research has shown that microRNAs 
(miRNAs) play a significant role in regulating the expression of biological 
genes and are closely related to the occurrence of inflammation, including 
bta-miR-22-3p. However, the specific molecular mechanisms by which miRNAs 
regulate bovine endometritis remain unclear. To investigate the regulatory 
mechanism of bta-miR-22-3p in yak endometritis, uterine tissues were collected 
from three healthy bos grunniens and three bos grunniens with endometritis, 
approximately 21 days postpartum. Various methods were employed, including 
real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), Western blot (WB), 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and immunofluorescence (IF). The 
results demonstrated that overexpression of bta-miR-22-3p led to a significant 
decrease (P < 0.05) in factors related to the mitogen-activated protein kinase 
(MAPK) signaling pathway and associated inflammatory factors, such as 
extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 
mitogen-activated protein kinase (P38), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), 
interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-1β (IL-1β). Furthermore, dual-luciferase 
assays confirmed that the kinase suppressor of the Ras 2 (KSR2) gene is a 
downstream target of bta-miR-22-3p. Overexpression of bta-miR-22-3p inhibited 
the expression of KSR2. When KSR2 was inhibited, the levels of MAPK signaling 
pathway-related factors and inflammation also significantly decreased 
(P < 0.05). Thus, bta-miR-22-3p suppresses the activation of the MAPK signaling 
pathway through the inhibition of KSR2, resulting in a reduction of inflammatory 
factors. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that bta-miR-22-3p targets the 
KSR2 gene to alleviate LPS (Lipopolysaccharide)-induced inflammatory damage.

Physiological Changes in Barley mlo-11 Powdery Mildew Resistance Conditioned by 
Tandem Repeat Copy Number.

Wild barley accessions have evolved broad-spectrum defence against barley 
powdery mildew through recessive mlo mutations. However, the mlo defence 
response is associated with deleterious phenotypes with a cost to yield and 
fertility, with implications for natural fitness and agricultural productivity. 
This research elucidates the mechanism behind a novel mlo allele, designated 
mlo-11(cnv2), which has a milder phenotype compared to standard mlo-11. 
Bisulphite sequencing and histone ChIP-seq analyses using near-isogenic lines 
showed pronounced repression of the Mlo promoter in standard mlo-11 compared to 
mlo-11(cnv2), with repression governed by 24 nt heterochromatic small 
interfering RNAs. The mlo-11(cnv2) allele appears to largely reduce the 
physiological effects of mlo while still endorsing a high level of powdery 
mildew resistance. RNA sequencing showed that this is achieved through only 
partly restricted expression of Mlo, allowing adequate temporal induction of 
defence genes during infection and expression close to wild-type Mlo levels in 
the absence of infection. The two mlo-11 alleles showed copy number 
proportionate oxidase and peroxidase expression levels during infection, but 
lower amino acid and aromatic compound biosynthesis compared to the null allele 
mlo-5. Examination of highly expressed genes revealed a common WRKY W-box 
binding motif (consensus ACCCGGGACTAAAGG) and a transcription factor more highly 
expressed in mlo-11 resistance. In conclusion, mlo-11(cnv2) appears to 
significantly mitigate the trade-off between mlo defence and normal gene 
expression.


Multiple shRNAs driven by U6 and CMV promoter enhances efficiency of antiviral 
effects against foot-and-mouth disease virus.

Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) is an economically significant animal disease 
because of the speed of its transmission. The current vaccine for FMD provides 
no protection until 7 days post-vaccination, thus reducing its effectiveness in 
the case of an outbreak. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) is a promising antiviral 
approach because it can induce a protective response much more rapidly. This 
study is the first report to apply multiple short hairpin RNA (shRNA) expression 
systems to inhibit foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) replication. Three 
different shRNAs, one targeting 2B region and two targeting 3C region, were 
driven by three RNA Polymerase III (Pol III) promoters, U6 or a combination of 
two U6 promoters and one RNA Polymerase II (Pol II) promoter, CMV. The 
adenoviruses simultaneously expressing three different shRNAs in a single 
construct had significantly enhanced antiviral effects compared with those 
expressing only a single shRNA, those expressing double shRNAs or a mixture of 
adenoviruses expressing a single shRNA and the adenovirus expressing double 
shRNAs, both in vitro and in vivo. The adenoviruses had broad antiviral effects 
against seven serotypes of FMDV, including O, A, Asia1, C, SAT1, SAT2, and SAT3 
in vitro, but differed in their efficacy. The adenovirus expressing multiple 
shRNAs driven by three U6 promoters had strong antiviral effects in suckling 
mice challenged with O, A, and Asia1 serotype of FMDV.


syn-tasiRnas targeting the coat protein of potato virus Y confer antiviral 
resistance in Nicotiana benthamiana.

Trans-acting small interfering RNAs (tasiRNAs) are 21-nt phased (phased siRNAs) 
resulting from successive DCL-catalyzed processing from the end of a 
double-stranded RNA substrate originating from the RDR of an AGO-catalyzed 
cleaved RNA at a micro RNA target site. Plant tasiRNAs have been synthesized to 
produce synthetic tasiRNAs (syn-tasiRNAs) targeting viral RNAs that confer viral 
resistance. In this study, we engineered syn-tasiRNAs to target potato virus Y 
(PVY) infection by replacing five native siRNAs of TAS1c with 210-bp fragments 
from the coat protein (CP) region of the PVY genome. The results showed that the 
transient expression of syn-tasiR-CPpvy2 in Nicotiana benthamiana (N. 
benthamiana) plants conferred antiviral resistance, supported by the absence of 
PVY infection symptoms and viral accumulation. This indicated that 
syn-tasiR-CPpvy2 successfully targeted and silenced the PVY CP gene, effectively 
inhibiting viral infection. syn-tasiR-CPpvy1 displayed attenuated symptoms and 
decreased viral accumulation in these plants However, severe symptoms of PVY 
infection and a similar amount of viral accumulation as the control were 
observed in plants expressing syn-tasiR-CPpvy3. syn-tasiR-CPpvy/pvx, which 
targets both PVY and potato virus X (PVX), was engineered using a single 
precursor. After the transient expression of syn-tasiR-CPpvy/pvx3 and 
syn-tasiR-CPpvy/pvx5 in N. benthamiana, the plants were resistant to both PVY 
and PVX. These results suggested that engineered syn-tasiRNAs could not only 
specifically induce antiviral resistance against one target virus but could also 
be designed for multi-targeted silencing of different viruses, thereby 
preventing complex virus infection in plants.


Identification and characterization of miRNAs and targets in flax (Linum 
usitatissimum) under saline, alkaline, and saline-alkaline stresses.

BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in responses to biotic and 
abiotic stress and have been characterized in a large number of plant species. 
Although flax (Linum usitatissimum L.) is one of the most important fiber and 
oil crops worldwide, no reports have been published describing flax miRNAs 
(Lus-miRNAs) induced in response to saline, alkaline, and saline-alkaline 
stresses.
RESULTS: In this work, combined small RNA and degradome deep sequencing was used 
to analyze flax libraries constructed after alkaline-salt stress (AS2), neutral 
salt stress (NSS), alkaline stress (AS), and the non-stressed control (CK). From 
the CK, AS, AS2, and NSS libraries, a total of 118, 119, 122, and 120 known 
Lus-miRNAs and 233, 213, 211, and 212 novel Lus-miRNAs were isolated, 
respectively. After assessment of differential expression profiles, 17 known 
Lus-miRNAs and 36 novel Lus-miRNAs were selected and used to predict putative 
target genes. Gene ontology term enrichment analysis revealed target genes that 
were involved in responses to stimuli, including signaling and catalytic 
activity. Eight Lus-miRNAs were selected for analysis using qRT-PCR to confirm 
the accuracy and reliability of the miRNA-seq results. The qRT-PCR results 
showed that changes in stress-induced expression profiles of these miRNAs 
mirrored expression trends observed using miRNA-seq. Degradome sequencing and 
transcriptome profiling showed that expression of 29 miRNA-target pairs 
displayed inverse expression patterns under saline, alkaline, and 
saline-alkaline stresses. From the target prediction analysis, the 
miR398a-targeted gene codes for a copper/zinc superoxide dismutase, and the 
miR530 has been shown to explicitly target WRKY family transcription factors, 
which suggesting that these two micRNAs and their targets may significant 
involve in the saline, alkaline, and saline-alkaline stress response in flax.
CONCLUSIONS: Identification and characterization of flax miRNAs, their target 
genes, functional annotations, and gene expression patterns are reported in this 
work. These findings will enhance our understanding of flax miRNA regulatory 
mechanisms under saline, alkaline, and saline-alkaline stresses and provide a 
foundation for future elucidation of the specific functions of these miRNAs.

First detection of emerging HoBi-like Pestivirus (BVD-3) among some persistently 
infected dairy cattle herds in Egypt.

Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a serious veterinary health concern 
worldwide. We conducted this study to determine the prevalence of persistent 
infections (PI) and identify the current strain among some dairy cattle herds in 
Egypt. A total of 240 serum samples were collected from six Egyptian provinces. 
Between 2019 and 2020, samples were tested by Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) for detection of PI animals, and then molecular characterization was 
performed. Six calves were found PI with a prevalence of 2.5% (6/240). Using 
molecular characterization, HoBi-like Pestivirus (BVD-3) was successfully 
identified in Egypt for the first time. Based on the BVD-3 reference strains on 
Genbank, the detected strains had an identity ranging from 98.8 to 99.6%. 
Partial nucleotide sequence of the 5'UTR gene for six tested samples was 
submitted to Genbank with accessions: OM324396, OM324397, OM324398, OM324399, 
OM3243100, and OM3243101.


miR156/SPL9 Regulates Reactive Oxygen Species Accumulation and Immune Response 
in Arabidopsis thaliana.

The functions of microRNA156 (miR156) and its targeted SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING 
PROTEIN-LIKE (SPL) transcription factor genes in plant development have been 
widely investigated. However, the role of the miR156/SPLs regulatory network in 
plant immune systems remains obscure. Here, we found that the accumulation of 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the transcripts of basal salicylic acid (SA) 
signaling pathway genes were lower in Arabidopsis Pro35S:MIR156 seedlings 
(miR156 overexpression mutants) but higher in Pro35S:MIM156 (miR156 repression 
mutants) and ProSPL9:rSPL9 (SPL9 overexpression mutants) seedlings compared with 
wild-type Col-0 plants (WT). As a result, Pro35S:MIR156 mutants induced greater 
susceptibility to Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 following syringe 
infiltration than WT, while Pro35S:MIM156 and ProSPL9:rSPL9 mutants showed 
enhanced resistance. In addition, foliar H2O2 application resulted in activation 
of SA-mediated defense response and ablation of miR156-induced susceptibility to 
P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000 infection. Collectively, our results provide new 
insights into the function of the miR156/SPL network in Arabidopsis immune 
response by regulating ROS accumulation and activating the SA signaling pathway.